CSCB58 Project Proposal: Winter 2017

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Rakin
Last Name: Uddin
Student Number: 1002365362
UofT E-mail Address: rakin.uddin@mail.utoronto.ca


Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Jia Yuan
Last Name: Zheng
Student Number: 1002639086
UofT E-mail Address: jiayuan.zheng@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member C
-------------
First Name: Aradhya
Last Name: Kunwar
Student Number: 1002375627
UofT E-mail Address: aradhya.kunwar@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member D
-------------
First Name: Aditi
Last Name: Damle
Student Number: 1002616911
UofT E-mail Address: aditi.damle@mail.utoronto.ca


Proposal
--------

Project Title:
MIDI Keyboard

Provide a 1 paragraph description of your project:
A simple MIDI keyboard which consists of a 4x2 (or 4x4) array of keys that each play a sequence of preloaded sounds when pressed. 
One can use switches to alternate between sets of preloaded sounds, allowing the user to string together their own sequence of sounds
(the result being a dubstep/EDM type of song). These sequence of sounds can be anything from excerpts from popular music titles or
general sound effects which will be outputted to a speaker.

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the first lab session?
Have the modules created to link the 4x2 (4x4) array to the FPGA board and receive their inputs. Be able to press these keys and have
some sort of output present (at the very least have an LEDR going high, but would want to have a single note be played by each key).
To be able to play notes we will need to create a module to divide the rate of the clock to certain frequencies that correspond to a
note (note A would have frequency of 440 Hz, etc.)

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the second lab session?:
Finish incomplete work from last week (have single note be played by each key). Add modules to control which sets of sounds to play and
assign them to the FPGA switches. Allow for up to 3-4 different sets of sounds (therefore 4+ states in our FSM), each set having
different sounds. Our fallback for this will be to get different sets of LEDs to be outputted at least.

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the third lab session?:
Develop the modules to enable a sequence of sounds to be played by the press of a key. Do this for the rest of the keys. We may need to
create FSMs for each sequence (or a loop) to accomplish this.

What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?
If we are unable to complete the tasks outlined in the third week (our goal), at the very least we will have a single set of sounds 
that are associated with each key which is a trivial task.

What hardware will you need beyond the DE2 board (be sure to e-mail Brian if it’s anything beyond the basics to make sure there’s enough to go around)
A 2x4 or 4x4 matrix of keys. Speakers as well, although we can use the computer speakers if dedicated speakers are unavailable.

Motivations
-----------
How does this project relate to the material covered in CSCB58?:
This project emphasizes the use of Finite State Machines (FSMs) to alternate between the different sets of sounds.
It also explores the use of clock cycles to control the type of sounds produced (by increasing/decreasing the frequency of the
clock cycles to output different notes).

Why is this project interesting/cool (for CSCB58 students, and for non CSCB58 students?):
For CSCB58 students, this project showcases the audio capabilities of the hardware tools that we have been using over the semester and
their applications.
For non CSCB58 students, the final product will be great for personal use. By loading their own custom sounds (so long as
they are in the correct format) they will be able to string together their own custom songs.

Why did you personally choose this project?:
Inspired by this artist's brilliant use of a MIDI Fighter 64 (an 8x8 keyboard that plays preloaded music excerpts) to produce a
dubstep/EDM style song: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qAeybdD5UoQ
Additionally, dubstep is a very popular genre in this age and we felt that developing this kind of tool would help others to easily
produce music close to that of what mainstream artists create.

